Okay so how is it coming together in this video.
You check that things are looking right in your main scene so I'll be hopping over to my Gothic church
scene and just see if the materials that I have applied and the the textures that I've applied are actually
coming into my scene as I'd expect them to.
And also I'll be checking sternly to blend the model is working correctly so were being leaned about
but we've changed a couple of things in our model itself and the basic building blocks.
And I just want to make sure that those changes are actually the change that I need and want to make.
So let's hop straight on over in a blender.
Okay so the first thing I've done here is gone ahead and opened up my Gothic church scene.
I've been working on the course you will open up your interior model slash exterior model that you're
currently working on.
The first thing that's going to do here is literally turn off all of the portals have already discovered
that they are not helping at this moment in time.
I'm not going to go ahead and remove them at all from our scene.
In fact what I'll probably end up doing is adding them to the mesh objects themselves and bring them
in that way.
But otherwise I'm ready to stice blurring my model.
Now I can see that the door is sorted.
So we've got um I'm just going to click on it and zoom in.
So the main door has blockwork over it.
The windows have blockwork over it the corners are still missing the tail and this bits here should
be the plain wall.
And that doesn't have any texture on it and we've definitely added texture.
So let's go have a look at what's going on there.
So let's go and open up the wall space and hop in to render mode here.
Okay was seemed to be OK.
Now we are in blender render and it has remembered that.
So let's switch that over to cycles.
Remember to click he used notes on your material.
So we've got that back in.
Brilliant and well save the file.
Now it all remember that it's cycles that that object again where copying the object data blocks oversoul
is expecting it to be in blender render at that point.
And touch wood.
When we go into a 3D view here what I'm going to come out of camera view and have some perspective.
It's tense Yes.
There we go we've got some texture applied to the rest of the model.
And at this point we can start to see one of my concerns was where it goes under.
There's going to be a line of squished material but actually I think that adds to our model and in fact
it lines at the edge of the wall was going to be one of my concerns.
So you don't have a corner piece that seems to have worked out pretty well as well.
And of course it's more of an interior scene and it's quite fuzzy inside it.
So it's going to take a while for rendering now but that is looking good the main point here is what
we have been working on is immediately taking effect in the scene that we're working on some just going
to go ahead and once again unhide all of these.
So I didn't save it before.
Let's go see how this is working now.
Over in the unity game engine.
So I'm going to go ahead and open up my Gothic church scene.
Now the way that unity works is it does convert the blend file into an FBI X in the background which
doesn't give us much control over how that happens.
And we seem to be lacking textures I expect to see textures in here almost straightaway.
No I would expect to have to apply the textures of these parts.
So let's just give that a go.
I'm going to click on one of these and see whether.
Okay.
It's got that texture replied.
I wonder whether I just need to save the changes to my scene here first before it will update properly
over in unity.
Come to think of it I think I export to design as an FBI ex.
It was a while ago and I can't remember.
I don't think we're having unity open up the blend file.
I think were manually doing the FBI.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
So now I'm scared to try selecting the various parts of our scene with control held down to make sure
that's going to bring the mannequin in as well just to make sure that the various parts of the scene
and the hierarchy underneath are included new parts I don't need to bring that in.
Then I'm going to go file an export I'm scared to try exporting the whole thing as an FBI x.
I'm going to overwrite my previous FBI and make sure that selected objects on the export be X ticked
as go ahead and export.
And hop back on over into unity.
Now this gothic church that we've got here I'm not sure.
I'm just literally going to delete that from our scene completely.
In fact in this case I think I was working with that so I did need a Forgot I was working with an FBI
ex.
There we go.
That's why that wasn't working.
I needed to refresh it.
So can I undo that.
The least no one shall have to re import it so that's important assets and go find that as in my scenes
folder if I remember correctly assets scenes.
It should be X..
What I've just changed and let's drag and drop it into the scene.
Ha.
Excellent.
That is starting to look pretty good.
Now I wonder why it has applied to some and not others.
Again let's go here.
I guess I just need to apply the map the U.S. map should have come across or just to add the texture
map to it.
And the same for this doorway.
Okay so that is working over in a game engine as well as we can see here I do have to rebuild it slightly
but not much.
And if we go ahead hit play we should be able to walk around our scene.
It's going to make that full screen so you guys can see what's going on.
How about that.
That's looking pretty good.
And that is quite lean.
It does mean that I need to remember takes more FBI checks before I do anything else.
I don't know why wide jump through the window.
Habit I suppose.
The ceiling is solid but it is also letting light through as we can see on the floor here so that can
be improved.
I don't see anything else around my scene that that looks a bit horrible there and there and probably
here as well.
No just there and there.
So that doesn't look too hot there.
And this is the great thing you know we've we've exported Do we haven't done much and we can.
I was for there was some sort of artefact it's not it's the light coming through one of those gaps.
This is coming along pretty well as you can see it's very lean.
I can now go ahead and change things.
I just need to remember to export the f x.
And of course it's time for a challenge I'd like you to check your model so check your model for air.
Any glaring obvious issues that need fixing and of course being lean about it fix them straight away
or at least make a notes that some things need altering.
If you can't fix them straightaway because it's going to have a big impact on something do make a note
so you don't make the same mistake again of what's going on there.
And of course share your progress in the discussions.
Pause of the year now and give that a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
It's going to take a quick tour around my model and see if there's anything else that I need to know
down.
Now I'm going to look around my model since I've got it already loaded into.
And just see if there's anything here.
There have been a couple things that I've noticed that will also make a difference in blender.
So one of the things I have noticed is a graphical artefact.
If you look at this corner piece here it is flickering backwards and forwards.
And that's because of how the mesh is a line some of the parts as I've been putting them together overlap
with other parts.
And I think they're overlapping by that point two of a blender unit or about 20 centimetres I suppose.
But as you can see it's causing a horrible glitching artefact.
It's certainly in unity and I'm pretty sure and there it is again on that doorway corner piece there.
I'm pretty sure that if we start rendering things in blender it's also going to rear its ugly head there
as well.
If you remember back in the lamp section I had the two meshes on top of one another the original curve
that made the lamp base and then the mesh I made from that curve and they were both being rendered at
the same time that cause some horrible artefacts.
And I'm pretty sure this is going to happen as well.
So that is a very big thing that we need to sort out otherwise an end render is going to look quite
horrible.
Hello it's me again.
Okay.
So in the other parts that I need to start focussing on really is just need turning up these corners
the great big holes there and these vaults.
They need a bit of work.
They're a great standing place holder racette but they're really starting to let down the rest of the
scene.
Now they're nowhere near the quality level of the rest of this scene.
So I think that's the next they are going to be focussing on a bit of detail on.
And then of course we've got to put something in this church I mean at the moment it's just an empty
building.
So how did you guys get on.
Did you find out some glaringly obvious errors like this one I've made here with my alignment of my
mesh.
That itself is probably going to take me tens of minutes to fix so I won't bore you with me moving about
pieces.
In this particular lecture you'll see the end result shortly.
Please post your results in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.